here a lot of people say they can't
afford eat healthy food but I disagree I
think the reality is we don't know how
to eat healthy food the average person
in the third world spends a couple
dollars a day on food and they'd a lot
healthier than most Americans so the
first way to eat healthy food is to
learn to prepare your own food and I'm
as guilty of this as anyone as I've said
in the past I'm a terrible cook
but it's a long learning process to be
able to prepare your own food versus
buying pre processed food which isn't
healthy and is overpriced and is
probably gonna leave you deficient in
nutrition and make you want to eat more
so if you can't afford to eat healthy
food today think about what you're gonna
do in the future potentially when food
costs a lot more you're gonna have to
learn to prepare your own food
quite possibly at some point the sooner
you start the better because it is a
long learning process another one of my
favorite tips for saving money on
grocery bills especially here in Los
Angeles and I think in many other big
cities around the United States is to
shop at ethnic stores places like Latin
markets Asian markets in Los Angeles
there's a great Armenian chain called
John's I always save at least 50% on a
given basket of groceries in these
stores versus an American chain store
and most people just have a mental block
against shopping and ethnic markets I
used to live in a kind of wealthy
neighborhood and right down the hill was
a Mexican market every single person in
that wealthy neighborhood would drive
past the Mexican market would drive
another 15 minutes to go to a different
posture neighborhood where there was an
American chain store and they'd pay
three times as much money for produce
and get stuff it wasn't as fresh another
way that you can sometimes save a lot of
money for certain items in certain areas
is to buy direct from a wholesaler if
you can find a wholesaler who will sell
to you particularly for items like dried
fruit or nuts or frozen fish there's
often a wholesaler who will sell direct
in bulk to the public you can save at
least 50% this way doesn't work for
everybody and doesn't work for every
item but it's worth looking into
sometimes if you buy an expensive item
and you buy a lot of that expensive
items probably the best way to save
money and eat fresh healthy food is what
everybody knows to grow your own food
but people don't do this because they
think it's really difficult if you can
grow a lawn and ornamental trees in your
yard there are certain types of greens
and herbs
and fruit trees that are just about as
easy to grow as a lawn you can throw
some arugula seeds on the ground they
grow just like grass practically same
thing with a lot of herbs and other
types of greens and if you find the
fruit trees that grow well in your area
they'll grow just as well as an
ornamental tree in your yard so
gardening doesn't have to be as
difficult as you might think it is of
course the more effort you put into it
the the better produce you can grow but
you can do certain things pretty easily
a my last and perhaps the most important
tip for eating healthy inexpensive food
is to network with other people network
with people who are into a healthy diet
and in particular network with
immigrants who actually know how to
prepare healthy food inexpensively these
people are going to know where to shop
they're going to know new recipes that
you're not aware of and also when you
network with somebody happens to be
across town at a certain store they can
pick up items for you and you can do the
same for them I think networking is
perhaps the best way to save money so
those are just the ways I've found over
the years to save probably more than 50%
on my grocery bill every month but I'm
not an expert on this topic and I know
not all of those suggestions apply to
everyone so I would really welcome
hearing from you in the comments section
as to how you save money on your grocery
bill